so
hello uh everyone hello my fans as the
uh the slide says and welcome
to uh my talk uh today on the millennium
problems the million dollar
uh millennium problems i should say i'm
even wearing my
uh million dollar t-shirt so i'm kitted
out in uh in my
i'm not sure if there's quite a million
dollars on the t-shirt but
it will uh unfortunately it's the best i
can do i couldn't bring my million
dollars with me
uh that i wish i had um so
thank you very much the introduction uh
that basically tells you all you need to
know about me uh so i'll just dive
straight on in
uh the the millennium problems so again
we're talking money
they uh they have this very great very
exciting
feel about them um because you literally
get
a million dollars uh for solving a maths
problem
and to me as a mathematician this is
incredibly exciting and hopefully
even to to non-professional
mathematicians
this is really quite uh an exciting and
almost unheard of
thing in in science in general and
academia in general the fact that
there exists problems that i am going to
try my best to explain to you
of course they are pretty difficult
that's why i say try my best
there exist problems that anybody
anywhere in the world can solve and if
you successfully solve one of these
problems
you are given one million dollars uh
also plus probably all of the amazing
prizes
and fame and celebrity status that would
come with that
and it's not it's quite weird to say
that about maths but but they really
have become quite a phenomena
um around the world and again if we get
if you pick that problem i will tell you
a story
about um someone who actually managed to
solve
uh one of these problems so the
background
these were introduced in the year 2000
um so this is why they are called the
millennium problems and it was an
institute
called the clay institute this is their
logo
and they they had a lot of money a very
wealthy benefactor left them lots of
money
and one of the conditions of this uh
sort of legacy this donation was that
some of this money would be used to
further
um the the cause of maths and to call
encourage more people to engage uh with
the subject of
of mathematics and somebody came up with
this fantastic i think idea of saying
well
let's use this money to to offer
this this prize let's offer a million
dollars
for the solution of uh of certain maths
problems
now this was in fact the second
incarnation
of our reincarnation of this idea
because in the year 1900
uh so almost well exactly 100 years
earlier
a german mathematician david hilbert had
this very first
idea but without the monetary reward but
he stood up at the
international congress of mathematics in
paris
and he presented a list of problems he
had 23
problems which he presented and he
basically
challenged the the mathematicians of the
world the world of mathematicians he
said
these are what i think are the biggest
challenges currently facing
mathematicians these 23 problems
and i challenge you over the next 100
years to go out and solve them
and in fact we we kind of almost did or
they always did
most of them were either solved or shown
that they couldn't be solved
um a few of them were a bit too vague um
so you couldn't really construct
formally what that problem was
they kind of got pushed aside and a few
of the others do
kind of again are still there's some
debate over whether we have or haven't
solved them
but but in general we did a very very
good job of trying to work our way
through this list as mathematicians
and so the clay institute thought well
let's do the same
and to make it onto the list of the clay
problems
to become a millennium prize problem in
the year 2000
um the condition was to be
a classical problem that has resisted
solution for many years now this in
itself is a very interesting statement
because
this doesn't say these problems must
save the world or these problems
must lead to incredible breakthroughs or
have
incredible applications there's no
mention of the the usefulness
in the real world of these problems uh
or even the difficulty
of these problems it just has to be a
classical problem
that has resisted solution i suppose by
saying resisted solution
you're implying they're pretty difficult
so it's not a new problem it's something
that's been around for a while and yet
the best minds have still not been able
to solve it
and so it's a pretty vague statement and
there was the uh the scientific advisory
board
of the clay institute um they which was
made up of a group of mathematicians
as well as other people they decided on
the final list
and we ended up with seven problems so
before i present the
the list from which you get to vote so
as i said you will be voting you'll be
presented with a poll
to select which problem you would like
me to explain next
because as much as i would love to
explain all seven it probably won't
happen within the title of it
so so you have to think carefully about
which ones you're really keen to learn
about when you vote
um okay so the problems themselves um so
i've got little pictures to represent
them so so number one
uh represented by the pitch with the
credit card is the riemann hypothesis
so the riemann hypothesis possibly the
most famous and one of the
uh left over from the hilbert problems
in fact definitely the most famous
remaining hilbert problem from 1900
and the riemann hypothesis has a lot to
do with prime numbers uh as we'll get to
and prime numbers are very very
important in um online encryption
uh for for internet banking and whatnot
so that's why i chose to represent
riemann through uh the picture of a
credit card so number one is the riemann
hypothesis
uh number two uh we've got a lecture of
uh robot
wally uh from from disney um and this is
p
versus np uh so this is a problem which
is all to do
with computers all to do with algorithms
um
how how we calculate how we solve uh
problems on a computer
and looking at um the maths behind that
really and it has a lot because it's to
do with artificial intelligence
it potentially has quite a lot to do
with um to do with machine learning
artificial intelligence robots
uh possibly skynet and the terminator of
style apocalypse who knows
so that's p versus mp represented by
wally uh number three
navier stokes so my favorite i'm
probably shouldn't say that but i've
said it now
my favorite as someone who works in
fluid mechanics and my area of research
is is looking at the study uh the motion
of of fluids
how they move how they interact and so
the navier-stokes equations
are the equations that describe that but
we don't really understand them
mathematically
so that's problem number three navier
stokes uh number four
uh represented here by a picture of lego
uh this is to do
with uh the hodge conjecture is the name
of the problem
uh this is actually to do with topology
uh which is to do with
uh you can think of it as geometry where
distance doesn't matter
there's a very nice way of thinking
about topology and it kind of asks
can we build complicated things from
simpler pieces which is why this is
represented by lego because you can take
some very simple lego pieces and build
some incredibly complicated structures
and that's kind of what the hodge
conjecture is saying so that's number
four
number five uh we're going into the
world of quantum uh this is the yang
mills mascot hypothesis
um so this looks at trying to
um produce rigorous a rigorous
mathematical theory
to verify um what the physicists have
found in experiments
um number six a picture of an iphone
uh this is the birch swinot and dyer
conjecture
so this one uh is to do with elliptic
curves
which is a particular type of curve and
elliptic
curve cryptography is actually used to
encrypt
imessage so if you have an iphone you
have without realizing it you have
interacted with elliptic curves which is
all about which is what the birch
schwinnette and dyer
conjecture is all about and then finally
uh we have a picture of gregory perelman
uh the only man who has solved the only
man woman or child the only person
who has solved a millennium problem and
that's the poincare
conjecture so if you want to hear the
story of how he solved the poincare
conjecture
uh then that would be number seven so
i'll give you
a couple a bit a little bit more time to
vote and i'm just going to go and see
how the results are getting on on my
screen
so i think it's riemann it's riemann by
the tiniest tiniest amount
okay so we're going to jump in to the
riemann hypothesis which fortunately
is actually the next slide in my
presentation so
the reader often wins the the voting
here because it's the most famous so
just to
sort of prove i'm not cheating i can
literally click next
uh there we go riemann hypothesis so i
kind of predicted the future here
in that you would all vote for riemann
but don't worry it's it's one of the
more interesting ones
and definitely one of the most famous uh
for sure so
i've tried to on each of these original
slides i've tried to
um give you a feel for the problem in a
single sentence
in um let's say normal person language
so without using
as minimal math as i can i'm trying to
explain what the problem is about
so riemann is kind of um in inverted
commas
asking the question is there a pattern
to where prime numbers appear
on the number line um and it's all to do
so that's why i got again why we have
the picture of the
uh the credit card because of internet
security and encryption is heavily
reliant
on the fact that we actually have a bad
understanding
of the prime numbers so um
it's all to do with something called the
riemann zeta function
so i've got a very short video just to
introduce uh that topic
the riemann zeta function this is one of
those objects in modern math that a lot
of you might have heard of but which can
be really difficult to understand
don't worry i'll explain that animation
that you just saw in a few minutes
a lot of people know about this function
because there's a one million dollar
prize out for anyone who can figure out
when it equals zero
an open problem known as the riemann
hypothesis
and so that was uh grant from three blue
one brown if any of you happen to to
know your maths youtube
introducing the topic for me there if
you're interested afterwards strongly
recommend this video
to try to understand a bit more um if
you want to do some like further viewing
after this talk
uh so the riemann zeta function um we
actually saw a graph we've seen a
formula
i'm going to focus on the formula so it
looks pretty complicated
right it's a classic scary maths formula
um
but what this means is that you have a
the zeta
is a function of s so s is a number you
input a number uh and then the output
from the zeta function is going to be
this infinite sum
so so this just means um substitute in
your value of s
um which appears here on the power of
this number n
um here so substitute in your value of s
and then this tells you to add all of
those terms
forever so so you're just adding lots of
things together that's what the the sum
means and you're doing this from n goes
from one to infinity
so you sub start by substituting in n
equals one and then you add it on to one
over two to the power s
plus one divided by three to the power s
and you carry on forever
and the riemann hypothesis says when is
this function
zero so we have this infinite sum
this complicated function the zeta
function and we want to know
for what values of s will this give me
zero
so if i input my value of s what does
the zeta function give me
it gives me zero then it is a zero of
the riemann zeta function
now the this for any depending of course
on your mathematical background this
this might sound
almost too easy perhaps or if you know a
bit more you know it's really hard
but there's a little uh kind of
technical detail
in this particular formula because the
number
s is actually a complex number
so if s was a uh just let's say the
counting numbers if s was one
or two or three and i'll go through some
of these examples
then the formula is quite easy to
understand you just add together various
bits
but if s is let's say one plus i
suddenly the formula is really quite
difficult
to get your head around and i will even
say that as a mathematician
so the fact that s can be a complex
number
makes this problem very very difficult
in short
now i mentioned it to do with the prime
numbers as well and at the moment i
haven't really got a mention of the
primes
um so what we actually do is a very very
clever piece of maths
actually think is is attributed to
leonard euler swiss mathematician who
kind of did everything in maths he was
amazing
and um he kind of showed a formula
to turn this sum so this is the zeta
function
but you can use uh what's called an
euler product
and you can turn it into this formula
again probably looks just as scary and
complicated but
what this is done is instead of having
an infinite sum
here what we've now done is turn this
into a product
so this capital pi means product means
multiply everything together
and you're doing the product over the
prime numbers
and these are the same thing so you've
got one formula here
in terms of the counting numbers one two
three four five six
forever and another formula here in
terms of the prime numbers
so 1 2 3 5 7
11 13 etc it's harder to say the prime
numbers because there isn't a pattern to
them
and that's actually um sort of one of
the key insights or one of the key
things about the riemann hypothesis
so it's we're trying to find when this
is zero this zeta function is zero
but the zeta function can be written in
terms of the prime
numbers now the reason we say
that solving riemann will help us
understand prime numbers
is not necessarily because
uh we don't know whether riemann is true
or false
so we are pretty certain as certain as
mathematicians can be
that the riemann hypothesis is true so
the actual hypothesis
says the zeta function is
zero whenever your number s
has real part equal to one half
so it's one half plus some imaginary
number
they are all of the zeros of s this is
what the riemann hypothesis states
and we've checked i think it's like the
first 10 billion
zeros the smallest values which give us
zero
um for this function and they all have
real part equal to one half
so if you're a physicist if you're an
experimental physicist
the riemann hypothesis is true because
you've done 10 billion experiments
and they all give you the same answer
but of course as a mathematician
that doesn't mean anything because one
single counter example
one single value of s that makes
the zeta function zero when the real
part of s
is not one half you just need one
example
and that would disprove the riemann
hypothesis
and that would actually earn you a
million dollars
now this is why lots of people try to
solve this because all you need is a
single value of s
that makes this zero when the real part
isn't a half it
sounds like that is it right but to
actually find that
is potentially impossible because as i
say
we've checked the first 10 billion
smallest values of s
and they all follow this pattern so we
think riemann is true
right i think most mathematicians
believe the riemann hypothesis to be
true
so the new knowledge about the prime
numbers
the reason we say solving riemann will
help us
understand the prime numbers it's not
necessarily
the the result of that proof right
whether it's true or false
that doesn't tell us anything whether
it's true or false but
to do a proof either to come up with a
counter example
or to show it's true to do either of
those things
you're probably going to need a
completely new way
of looking at prime numbers because
we've seen here
you need to find when this is zero but
that's the same as this
infinite product over the primes and so
if somebody is able to come up with a
new
understanding or a new way of looking at
the prime numbers
or perhaps someone is able to come up
with the pattern of the prime numbers
on the number line then that we believe
as mathematicians could actually be the
key
that unlocks the riemann hypothesis
proof so that's why we say
solving riemann will help us with the
primes it's actually
that to be able to do it is going to
require
new knowledge of the prime numbers not
that solving it gives us
that new knowledge so it's a little
technical but i think it's important to
sort of
um to emphasize that it's new knowledge
is needed
if we're going to be able to solve this
we think now
this function uh so to get a bit more uh
into some examples
so i've been talking about this this
complicated function so what i can do is
plug in the value of one
so i can plug in s equals one uh into my
formula so you'll notice the s here has
now just been
replaced to the power one i just get the
number n
and now um the formula will just look
like
the following so the first number is one
divided by one
which is just one plus one divided by
two
plus one divided by three plus one
divided by four
and i'm going to keep adding these
numbers forever so this
is zeta of one it is this infinite
sum carrying on forever and ever and
ever now this
is equal to infinity it should be tens
to infinity
and i guess some of my pure
mathematicians might be uh not very
happy with me saying equals infinity
so this tends to infinity we're going to
infinity we're going to this
massive number that we sort of never
reach but but we're sort of uh
fictional almost like being the infinite
so this will actually reach infinity um
now how do we show this so this is where
we're going to do some real actual math
so i'm going to give you an outline
of my favorite this is actually one of
my favorite mass proofs i got asked
recently
in a youtube live stream i was doing
what my favorite
uh mass proof was and this one was the
one that jumped to mind so you're gonna
get to see my favorite proof
uh so we're gonna try and show that this
particular sum
is equal to infinity goes to infinity um
so this is what we're trying to show so
what i'm going to do
is write down a very very obvious true
statement
and hopefully at least some of you may
laugh when i write this but
i'm going to write down that one is
greater than a half
now hopefully nobody is disagreeing with
me
at this point in the proof the number
one is bigger
than a half right so the reason i've
done this
is that number one is the first number
in my infinite sum and number and the
number one half
is the next number in my infinite sum
so now what i'm going to do on the next
line is actually take
the next two numbers so i'm going to
take one half plus one third
so i've started with the first number
one and written something in
that it is bigger than i've then written
the next two numbers
in my sum and i'm going to replace both
of them
by the next number along so i'm going to
replace a half
by one quarter and a third also
by one quarter so you'll notice i'm not
replacing a half by a third
even though a half is bigger than a
third i want to replace
both numbers by the same thing
and that same thing they individually
each have to be larger
than it so a half plus one third
is greater than one quarter plus one
quarter
so again just to go over that i've
replaced first term number one
by the next one along which is a half
i've replaced the next two terms
a half and one third by the next one
after both of them
which is a quarter and a quarter and i'm
going to do the same
so the next line i'm going to now
actually use four numbers so you may
have thought it would be three numbers
but what i'm doing here is actually
going up in powers of two
in terms of the number of things i'm
writing so on the next line
i've got one quarter plus one fifth plus
one sixth plus 1
7 the next four terms
in my infinite sequence the thing i'm
trying to
to prove and again the next number along
would be one over eight
and each one of these individually
is bigger than one eighth so i'm going
to replace
one quarter by one-eighth one-fifth by
one-eighth
from six by one-eighth and one-sevenths
by one-eighth so i've got four lots
of 1 8. and now i'm just going to
continue this pattern forever
so the next line would so that's the dot
dot dot
the next line would have 1 8 plus 1 9
plus 1 10
all the way up to 1 15 so there would be
individual fractions on the next line
and i would say
that is greater than 1 16 plus 1 16
8 times so
and i carry this forever now let's take
stock of why i've done this and what's
going on
so if i draw a little box in red around
everything on the left hand side
of my inequality so everything in the
red box
is bigger than everything added together
on the right hand side because
individually each line
is so the overall total must be
so everything in that red box if you add
them all together
you've got one plus a half plus the
third plus the fourth plus the fifth
plus the six plus the seventh
so if you carry this on forever which
we've done
that is exactly equal to the sum
that i want to know the answer to so
i've just got all of these terms added
together
all the way up to n equals infinity so
i've just got exactly zeta
of one and now on the right hand side
i've got one times a half
on the line below i've got a quarter
plus a quarter well that's also a half
then i've got an eighth plus an eighth
plus an eighth plus an eighth
so that's four eighths that's also a
half
so everything here is just one half
and continuing this pattern every term
on each line
would be one half so in the green
box doing this forever i've just got
a half plus a half plus a half plus a
half per half forever and ever
now if i keep adding a half
without ever stopping i get to infinity
that you can it's like if you keep
counting forever
one two three four five six if i carried
on forever i would get to infinity
so if i keep adding a half together a
half one
one and a half two two and a half three
three and a half four i'm going to get
to infinity
it might take me twice as long but i
will get there because i'm doing this
forever
so this in green is infinity
but everything in red is bigger than
everything in green
so the sum that i want to know the
answer to
the 1 over n or zeta of 1 is bigger
than infinity well
the only way you can be bigger than
infinity is to be
infinity and so that would complete uh
our i'm going to call that proof
in inverted air commas because it should
be a bit more mathematically rigorous
but that's the idea
we've just compared various inequalities
you add everything up
and what we've got is exactly the zeta
function of one
is bigger than infinity so it has to be
infinity there's nothing bigger than
infinity
um so that is one way to show that the
zeta of one is infinity
so just as you think well okay so so
let's try
zeta of two right so so same idea
i'm gonna take my my formula i've got
the first term is one over one squared
so that's just
one then i've got one over two squared
so that's one quarter
then i've got one over three squared
that's 1 9 1 over 4 squared that's 1 16
and i'm going to go and carry on and add
them forever
so it's very similar to the line above
very similar
except these maybe these are a little
bit smaller because i'm doing dividing
by bigger numbers
but you know i'm gonna keep adding
forever zeta of one
went to infinity so you know maybe
something similar happens
with zeta of two well that's pi squared
divided by six
and uh just shame i can't hear people's
reaction if this is the first time
you've seen this
so so this is true i can i can't show
you a proof now because it would take
about an hour
but i can prove this and i think about
10 different ways and most
mathematicians can it's such an
interesting problem
that you learn lots of ways to prove
this but i'm not sure i still believe it
because it's one of those things that
even though i know it to be true it
still blows my mind
that you can add one plus a half plus a
third a quarter
and i'll get to infinity okay i've shown
you a proof hopefully we're on board
with that
but then if all i do is just divide by
two squared divide by three squared
four squared and i end up at like where
first of all where's pi come from
it's my first question why is pi
appearing in this
in this sum all i'm doing is adding
numbers and now i get pi
that in itself is is crazy and then also
like pi squared divided by 6 that's
about 1.5
so how come this only goes to 1.5
and yet to the power of 1 i get to
infinity
it's as i say i can prove this but it
still blows my mind so this is this is
true i'm not joking around this is
actually true this is accepted as a true
mathematical statement but it's
incredible and just to emphasize how
much i
if you haven't got it yet how much i
love this this entire problem
so so here's actually an image of the
tattoo on my arm
you can maybe see it in the light there
um and
so this is actually a um a geometric
representation
of that particular um series this is the
zeta two
function because the the first black
line is zero
then the distance to that first black
line here is actually one
the distance to this next one is one
quarter
of the distance between the first two so
the next line
is one plus one quarter the next one is
then one ninth
plus one over three squared plus one
over four squared
and you add these forever and you get to
the dotted line
right at the end so it's a dotted line
because we never get there because it's
infinity
but the dotted line is actually pi
squared over six
so so i measured this out so hopefully
my tattoo artist
did it correctly uh from my drawing but
this is actually
um my sort of ode to zeta two shall we
say this is how much this
result blows my mind um so
final thing to leave you so so i wanted
to show those examples
just to kind of give you a feel for
how weird the zeta function is let's say
so so it looks like it should be a
reasonably well behaved function when is
it zero
you know if you're doing that with a
normal equation you draw its graph and
see when it crossed the x-axis
but things just don't work that way with
this function it's a very very
complicated function
and that's why it has a million dollar
prize so we've seen two examples the
final one
is if you substitute in s equals minus
one
so what that's gonna do here is actually
make this now the sum of
n so the n to the power minus one goes
on to the top
and so if you add all of these you've
got one plus two plus three plus four
plus five plus
forever and that one is equal to minus
one divided by
twelve and there's a great number foul
video about this so i'm going to point
you in that direction
and you can argue uh with everyone else
on the internet about that but that is
also true that is you can prove that
mathematically as well
uh so that is the riemann hypothesis uh
in a nutshell
so we're now back to the voting side uh
so
again the vote the poll will hopefully
uh be open without
riemann so riemann has vanished i will
just remind you what these are we've got
uh two is p versus np which is a
discussion about computers
about algorithms how computers learn how
we solve problems on computers
uh number three navier stokes so that's
about fluid mechanics that's my favorite
looking at rivers oceans
trying to mod trying to model motion of
fluids
and four hodge conjecture this is to do
with topology and building
complicated things from smaller pieces
um five is yang mills this is also with
quantum theory
and trying to create a mathematical
theory
um to to describe physical experiments
six is uh birch schwinnert and dyer so
this is looking at
elliptic curves which are used in
cryptography on on iphones
and seven is the poincare conjecture
which was solved by
gregory perelman so i'm just going to
get a quick drink
i'll give you another 20 seconds or so
to vote i can see them all changing
and then we'll do the second problem
right so the winner is p
versus np took it right at the end over
navier stokes
right so people's mp um again in a
sentence
if a problem is easy to check if i can
quickly and easily check the solution
to a problem on a computer we call it an
np problem
does that also mean that it is easy to
solve
that's what we call a p problem so p
versus np is talking about two different
classes of problem
so again we've got um
p problems are easy to solve a computer
can solve them very quickly that's what
we mean by easy computer console in
polynomial time
would be the technical uh language and
an np problem
is a problem which is easy to check the
answer to
now on this diagram i've shown these two
as being separate but
they don't quite work like that so in
fact
if something is easy to solve
so if a computer can find the answer to
a problem
very quickly then it is automatically
also easy to check because
if you say to a computer uh check the
answer to this problem
then it can just solve it really really
fast
and then see if your answer is the same
as the one the computer has
so so if something is easy to solve
it is automatically easy to check
because to check it you just solve it
because we've said it's easy to solve so
why not do that that's the easiest way
to check it
so therefore it looks like this
everything that is a p problem
everything that's easy to solve
in the purple box is actually inside
the much larger blue box of an np
problem because again it's easy to solve
if i need to check it i just solve it
done
now p versus np asks
is the purple box actually all
of the blue box or is there something
inside np is there a point here a
particular problem
that fits in this corner which is it's
an
np problem it's easy to check but it's
hard
to solve that's what we don't know that
is the million dollar question
is p equal to np in which case the
purple box
is exactly the same size as the blue one
or is p
not equal to np in which case
there's something else inside the blue
one that's not
in the purple one so i really like this
one because you can if you can explain a
math problem using a venn diagram
it's automatically a great maths problem
so so that is p versus mp in a nutshell
is
a problem that's easy can we find a
problem which is easy to check
but hard to solve that would mean p is
not equal
to np does such a problem exist so
we think again speaking to um to experts
in this area
i am not claiming to be one speaking to
actual experts in this area
we think p does not equal mp so we think
that there is something
in here something in the blue that's not
uh
in the in the purple that is the general
consensus doesn't mean everybody thinks
it but that is the general consensus
amongst the the uh experts
so i've got an example of um
of an np problem because it's quite hard
to get your your head around
what uh is an np problem and what is a p
problem
so so example of something which is a p
problem would be
simultaneous equations so regardless of
your age
i'm assuming there's nobody under sort
of the age of 10 watching this
if so well done but uh it definitely
wasn't pitched for you
if you uh hopefully know what
simultaneous equations are where you
have like x plus y equals 3
and 2y plus 3x equals 6.
we can solve those and if we can solve
them quite quickly that means a computer
generally
can also solve them quite quickly
because we tell the computer to do it
program the computer to do it exactly
how we would do it as humans
so simultaneous pro equations are p
problems they're easy to solve
and again that means they're
automatically easy to check so
simultaneous equations very much in the
purple box now
something called the traveling salesman
problem
represented by this map we think
this is a very good candidate for being
here
it's easy to check but it's hard to
solve
so it's just inside the blue not the
purple
so the traveling salesman problem so
here is a map of the us
um and there are various cities this is
just one path
between between some of those cities so
there are also other dots um which
aren't connected on the path
so the traveling salesman problem would
be
i am uh let's suppose i'm driving my car
so i'm a salesman
as the name suggests and i'm going to
travel and let's suppose i'm driving my
car
but i can only go a maximum of 5 000
miles
so there's a maximum distance that i can
travel in my car suppose let's say it's
going to break down or that's all my
money left
that i have for fuel or gas in america
so so i can can't travel more than 5000
miles and yet i want to visit
every city on this map so let's just say
there are 100 cities
for to make it a nice round number so
the traveling salesman problem says
is there a route visiting all 100 cities
with total length less than 5000
miles that is a traveling salesman
problem
there are variations on this but that
would be an example
so so what you've got to do is find a
route
that visits every city and
is less than some maximum length
or it could be a less than a maximum
time as well same kind of idea
so so that's the traveling salesman
problem now the reason this is hard to
solve
well first of all i'm claiming this is
an np problem so that means it's easy to
check
so let's start there so if i i've
explained to you the traveling salesman
problem
so if i now come to you and say here is
my solution
and i just give you this list this
perfect directions
to visit 100 cities with a distance less
than 5 000 miles
then for you to check that it's actually
quite easy
you've got two things to check you you
check does
every city appear on this list do all
100 cities appear
on this set of directions yes
is the total distance less than 5 000
miles yes done so it's
very fast to check a solution
to traveling salesmen however to find
that route
in the first place is very very
difficult
so at the moment the basically the best
way
that a computer would try to solve this
is to try
every possible route so we have some
shortcuts but in general
the way at the moment a computer would
solve the traveling salesman problem
would be to try every single route so
what that means
is we've got 100 cities so you can start
at any city so you have 100 choices
of where to start so let's suppose we
start
uh over here somewhere in new york
somewhere around here ish
so as we start in new york so we fixed
where we start
one out of 100 choices then where to go
next
we have 99 choices because we we've
already done new york
but there are still 99 other places we
could go to next
okay some of them are silly we don't
want to go from new york all the way to
seattle
that's clearly not going to be a good
idea just in one go
but at the moment we would buy every
possible solution
so we've got 100 choices of where to
start 99 choices of where to go next
98 of where to go third etc so what
you've actually got here
when trying to find all possible roots
you if you have
n cities you actually have
uh n factorial uh
possible roots so n factorial is just n
exclamation mark is is the mathematical
notation
and it just means n times n minus 1
times
n minus 2 times n minus 3 all the way
down
to times 2 times 1. so you just you know
if i start i've got an example if i
start at 4
factorial it's four times three times
two times one
multiply them together that gives you
the total number of routes
between four cities if you're um
you can start anywhere and you just need
to visit them all
so four factorial four times three is
six
times two is four times three is twelve
whoops four times three is twelve i
don't work with numbers anymore it's all
symbols
i know the greek alphabet but not
numbers four times three is twelve
times 2 is 24 so 4 factorial
is 24 okay and to to check 24
roots on a computer this would take
about 24 milliseconds so that's pretty
quick
right but we've only got four cities so
there's not that many routes to check
that's fair enough
now if i increase that and say okay well
so obviously we're looking at 100 we've
not got there yet let's just start with
10.
so if i have 10 factorial then that's 10
times 9 times 8 times 7 times 6 times 5
times 4 times 3 times 2 times 1.
now you can either try and do this in
your head you'll very quickly give up
uh you could try this on the calculator
you'll probably also give up pressing
all the buttons
because the answer to that is about 3.6
million
so jumping from four factorial and four
cities
there are 24 possible routes but if you
have 10 cities
there are 3.6 million possible routes so
all of a sudden it now takes a long
time to calculate the distance of 3.6
million routes
in fact it would take about an hour to
do
3.6 million routes so we've got
four cities takes 24 milliseconds 10
cities takes an hour
currently on on computers with our
current algorithms checking all the
routes
and the fun thing about 10 the reason i
included this is i actually did an
experiment earlier today
so i went onto google maps and you can
add
via in your directions so here's this
google maps i'm adding directions from
oxford
where i normally live to warrington
which is where i am with my parents at
the moment
and i added in a total of 10 different
stops
and this was the maximum number
of routes or maximum number of
destinations
you can enter on google maps because
google does not want you to go any more
if you start entering more than 10
different cities
you're kind of going to break google
like i should i should say
i said this once and somebody in the
audience was from google and explained
to me they have
obviously safety protocols to to stop
this from happening
so you wouldn't actually break google
but it's quite fun to think that you
could set to google maps a problem that
would in theory
take the google computers too long to
solve so they cap it at 10
so they obviously have slightly cleverer
methods slightly clever
algorithms so this does not take an hour
this took about
five or six seconds for them to give me
this route
so so google has some shortcuts but it's
interesting
that one of the most powerful servers in
the world still captured at 10
because they know this is a traveling
salesman problem and they know
that that it's difficult to solve at a
computer so if we go back
so let's go finally to our problem 100
cities
so that's 100 factorial 100 times 99
times 98 times 97
gives you nine with 157
zeros so this wouldn't fit on my slide
so i've written it as 9 times 10
to the power of 157 so this is
nine and then 157 zeros written after it
so this is a very very big number uh
it's really hard to get
we're bad as humans are getting our head
around big numbers but this is an
exceptionally large number
and if you tried to solve this on
the world's best super computer
so to take the world's fastest super
computer running all kinds of parallel
processing and different things
and tried to actually calculate um the
the
traveling salesman problem for 100
cities
it would take longer than the age
of the universe with today's current uh
algorithms and current technology so it
sounded like
a very reasonably straightforward
problem i want to visit a hundred cities
i have a maximum distance can i do it
but at the moment the best methods we
have of solving this
it just we can't solve it we actually
just cannot it would take too long we
actually can't solve that problem
efficiently so it's very much
an np problem that is not easy to solve
so again it's easy to check if i have
such a route does it visit
all 100 and does it take less than 5 000
miles
done but to actually find that route we
can't do it
using our current methods now the
million dollar question then
to conclude is is this because
the travelling salesman problem is
inherently this difficult
so is there a fundamental property of
the traveling salesman problem
and similar problems like this that says
they will always be easy to check
and but hard to solve so is is that just
a fundamental property of them will they
always exist in that top corner
so they're in the np box but not in the
p box
or so that would mean p is not equal to
np if you could prove that
or is in fact p the same as np
and there's actually a really clever way
to solve
travelling salesmen that nobody has come
up with yet
so again kind of like riemann you just
need a single counter example
if you come up with a clever way of
solving the traveling salesman problem
that can be done in shorter than the age
of the universe then
you in theory um well you wouldn't i'm
sure you would actually win the million
for that
but you would at least help us to get
one step closer to being able to prove
the p versus np
problem so we're not sure we think p
does not equal np
because it feels like something like
this the cleverest minds in the world
have been trying this for 50 or 50 plus
years
to try and create a better algorithm and
we just can't at the moment
so that's why we think p does not equal
np and the traveling salesman is that
outlier
in that blue box right voting time again
so we'll open another poll
uh without riemann and without p versus
np
right i'm closing the poll so we've got
uh pine creek conjecture on 28 okay this
one's short and sweet cause it's just a
great story
um right so again super exciting
this this um man here gregory perelman
is the only
only person who's ever solved uh a
millennium problem as far as we're aware
still living living person as well
um so the pancreas conjecture that the
problem itself before i get to the full
story the problem itself again
in in everyday words and language kind
of says
if i have a smooth finite shape
so finite means it doesn't go forever
smooth means it has no sharp edges
so i have a smooth finite shape and it
has no holes
then can i turn it into a sphere
that's pretty much the poincare
conjecture
in a nutshell so but
it doesn't just mean a sphere as in a
three-dimensional sphere
we're actually talking here about an
n dimensional sphere so we're talking
about
the the analog of a sphere in four
dimensions or the analog of a sphere in
seven dimensions whatever that may be
is is the the idea so we want this to be
true
in in n dimensions because that was the
original problem
so um a bit of a bit of a history less a
bit of a timeline so in 1904
henry poincare a french mathematician
very good french mathematician
uh proposes that the pancreatic
conjecture that now has his name
so we already knew or we already know
that
in 1d2d and 3d and the best way to
picture this is actually imagine having
a ball
of blue tack or play-doh literally in
your hands
so it's finite you have a fixed amount
of play-doh it has no sharp edges
so so it's kind of it's quite smooth
along the edges there's no sharp corners
or anything like that
um and it has no holes then
if i say to you can you turn your shape
can you turn your ball of play-doh
into a sphere and the only thing that
you can't do
is you cannot add or remove holes so you
can't tear pieces off
because that would be sort of adding a
hole or that would be you know you can't
tear things apart
but given your shape again you can hold
it it's finite
it's kind of got bumpy edges but but
it's smooth enough
and it has no holes at the moment you
just roll it
in your hands and you get a sphere and
so that pretty much
i would argue that's a very valid proof
to the poincare conjecture in three
dimensions
you you can do this and you get your
sphere and so and
similarly you can do this with a circle
if you have a square you just make your
square round
and you can kind of you know again
imagine a square that you could like
made from pipe cleaners then you can
kind of bend them into a circle
so that's allowed you're just not
allowed to add or remove holes
so so you can do it in one d you can do
in 2d you can do 3d
so poincare comes along and says well i
think this should be true in
any dimension this should be true in n
dimensions
um and this was his conjecture so he
didn't offer a proof he i guess he'd
done some work on this area and had a
reason to think it might be true
and it was actually in 1961 so 57 years
later
that the american mathematician stephen
smale uh posing for a selfie with me
here
i was very fortunate enough to meet him
last year he's
a very very interesting chap another
another sort of further reading
uh for after this is look up stephen
smail and stories about him he's very
interesting uh
very interesting guy so um so stephen
smail in
in 1961 proved the poincare conjecture
uh to be true in n equals six
and above so he didn't just you know
prove it in dimension six he proved it
for six seven eight nine
all the way to infinity um now
there's kind of a almost like a
technical thing here
um which is to say that when you're
solving these kinds of problems
higher dimensions make things easier
and what i mean by that is uh or the way
i like to picture it anyway
is if you imagine trying to solve um
a maze so so if you've got like a like a
child's puzzle book
and you have those mazes and you have to
draw with your pen and get your root
through the maze
now that's in two dimensions right the
maze is on a page and you can go up or
down
like a cross or the horizontal vertical
x and y
on that axis so so if you're drawing
your puzzle maze you can move in two
dimensions
now if if you get stuck but then i come
along and say well actually
i'll give you a third dimension you just
take your pen off the page
move it across and put it back down uh
the other side of the dead end
so adding an extra dimension actually
makes it easier to solve the maze
problem
right so instead of starting in 2d if
you say well i'm allowed to do it in 3d
you can just jump over all of the walls
and the maze is really easy so the same
kind of thing happens when solving these
problems in geometry and topology
once you've got it for the low number so
once you've got it for six
it's then actually quite easy to apply
the same idea
to everything above that so so one two
and three
we were just obviously true because we
can do it in the real world we live in a
3d world
so we can just test these things and see
that it's true six and above
very clever maths but because you
because steven smale had done it for six
it made it a lot easier for all the
others you kind of got those for free
almost
then in uh 1983 another american
mathematician michael friedman shows it
for n equals five
uh and so what that means is that the
year 2000 comes around and the
millennium problems are being thought
about
um n equals four is the only one left so
it's true for one to
three we've got it for six and above
we've got it for five
so we're just missing four for some
reason we just cannot
show have a proof that works in four
dimensions
but it looks like it's probably going to
be true because it's true in every other
dimension and that was the pancreatic
injector that was the the million-dollar
millennium problem
and gregory perelman he'd actually been
working so he's a russian mathematician
he'd been working on this
since the early 90s so he was working on
this before
it was a millennium problem so obviously
he didn't do it for the prize money
shall we say
because he was he was already doing it
because it was an interesting problem to
him as a mathematician
and he he was working on this and then
in 2002
absolutely out of nowhere he just
publishes
a proof on the archive so the archive is
an online repository
uh for uh academic work
um and anybody can post things there and
then
initially nothing is peer reviewed so
that means nobody else has checked it so
you can literally just publish anything
uh but it's great because it allows you
to sort of put work out there
but obviously once something goes out
there it needs to be checked to verify
that you know it is correct by other
experts in that area
um so uh he just publishes on the
archive very unexpectedly
um and and so at first everyone was like
oh it's just another attempted
poincare proof uh i think there are like
10 riemann hypothesis proofs appear on
the archive every day
and various other millennium problems no
doubt so everyone kind of at first
thought that
but then at the same time perilman was a
very very well respected mathematician
you know he was working in topology and
he published lots of
actually very very good results so so
also as well as the fact that it was
kind of
came out of nowhere people began to take
a little bit of note because they're
like oh this is like a big name who's
doing this and claiming to have a proof
and eventually it built up more and more
momentum
and you know eventually it took a while
but eventually it was all checked
and it was actually shown to be correct
uh and in 2006
he was offered the fields medal uh so
the fields medal
is um one of the biggest prizes you can
win
as a mathematician uh it's often
described as the nobel prize of maths
um i don't think they call it that but
that's what most people sort of refer to
it because there isn't of course a maths
nobel prize
so if you're a mathematician you kind of
want to win the fields medal you know if
you're aiming for the top award
in your particular field um and he was
awarded this in 2006 after his proof was
was confirmed
uh now this is where the story really
gets interesting
because perlman turned this down
so so he he said you know thanks but no
thanks i i don't want the fields medal
i'm quite happy
staying wherever he was i assume i think
he was in russia initially so let's
suppose
he was happy staying in russia just
getting on doing maths minding his own
business
now the problem with well actually i'll
i'll show you the next bit so so he
turns down the fields medal
and then in 2010 the the clay institute
finally i'm not sure quite why it took
them four years later but in 2010
he was then awarded the millennium prize
so the clay institute got in contact
with perlman and said
we will indeed give you and honour you
you have solved the pinecreate
conjecture you can have your million
dollars
and again he said no he turned this down
now um i'll i'll
got to really really uh emphasize this
nobody knows the story
right there's lots and lots of myth and
legend and hearsay around
why he did or didn't turn these things
down etc
but nobody actually knows the true story
but
two things to me seem plausible or two
things have the most
uh i wouldn't say evidence but two
things i guess are the most believable
stories
so there's a lot of people that believe
that
uh he didn't want the fame he didn't
want the fame of winning the fields
medal and the fame of being the first
person to solve a millennium problem
and so you know that's why he rejected
the prizes but of course
what's the easiest way to become more
famous than the person who won a million
dollars
it's the person who then turns down uh
that million dollar prize so so if that
i again don't know if that was his
reason if it was
possibly wasn't the best idea gregory um
but then the other thing which also i
think um sounds reasonably believable
is that um he was supposedly again don't
know if it's true he was supposedly
a little bit annoyed that it took so
long to verify his proof
because he as a mathematician he sort of
felt
he wouldn't publish anything unless it
was correct and unless it was true
and so he was maybe a little bit annoyed
that it took four years
to to confirm the proof initially and
then another four years
before he was actually offered the prize
was confirmed
so again they are just the two let's say
best stories we have
as for the reasons he's never given an
interview so nobody knows nobody will
probably ever know
i think it's one of those because he's
kind of disappeared um
you know since since this all happened
and no one knows where he is or what
he's doing
which is quite a shame because it would
have been a great if he was actually
still doing amazing maths
um so so a fantastic story and obviously
a real character
um to be able to solve this working on
it before the money didn't want the
prizes didn't want the fame didn't want
the money
i just wanted to be left alone to do
maths that's the phrase that gets
associated with with perlman in this
story and the final thing i just want to
mention about this
is you can do an estimate of the amount
of time
that perlman would have spent on his
proof
and um basically
it if you do this estimate um the amount
of hours he spent
it would equate to the less the minimum
wage
so the amount of time he's spent on the
fine curry conjecture
over many many years would roughly be
about
equal if not less than uh being paid
minimum wage
so as great as it is to earn a million
dollars for solving a maths problem
the amount of work and effort you have
to put in means you're probably
like you've got it you've gotta love it
as well um if you're going to
uh as well as being able to to actually
solve it so
quick final um reminder we've done one
two
and seven so three navier stokes fluid
mechanics uh my area of research
uh four hodge conjecture uh building
complicated things from simpler pieces
which is why there's lego five is yang
mills and quantum theory
and all the crazy stuff that happens
there um
and then six elliptic equations uh which
are really uh
powerful tools in cryptography that's
the birch and swinoden dyer
conjecture okay final 10 seconds this
one's very close
so the uh the one that almost won second
but then didn't win third that was very
interesting some very uh
split votes there and now mistakes
equations so i was hoping we would get
to this
as i i kind of biased everybody by by
saying this is my favorite i really want
to talk about it um
so i'll try and do my best and do in ten
minutes the nami stakes equations
model um the behavior the motion
the movement of of all of the fluids um
on earth in short um and
what the the issue for the million
dollars
is so we really understand them and they
work
but from a mass perspective we
we just don't really know what's going
on it turns out that they are incredibly
complicated
mathematically so again they work
the physics makes sense the physics
works the the engineering the
applications that all works that all
makes sense
but just mathematically we're not happy
as mathematicians that we really got to
the bottom
of all of the secrets hidden uh in these
equations
so that's what i mean when i say are
they well posed we don't just
like we just don't really know whether
or not they are rigorous enough
mathematically so um
to introduce the equations actually
here's me
this is the first for number five on the
ribs as well the pain of the ribs like
that's i'm gonna say this is complete
commitment to to navigate stokes and
fluid mechanics why did you do that
well so so that was me um uh introducing
uh the the navy sex equations so i was
gonna also just kind of
reveal you can't see the the real tattoo
there
um so so and i um so that's now the
second one i guess
i feel like maybe i should get all seven
at some point uh this is the only other
one that i have a millennium problem
tattoo
so i was studying abby stokes equations
uh during my phd
and doing my research now and that was
the sort of meaning behind the tattoo to
me
um and um the the equations are very
very complicated
um and as i said we
they they work they have lots of
applications we use them to do amazing
stuff
but just as mathematicians we're just
not quite happy that we've really
understood them
um and so i also wanted to just uh
emphasize
an example of why understanding them
better would be really important
uh so i've got here a video um of a
beating heart
um so this is a heart pumping blood
around the body in fact this is my heart
i took part in um in i agreed to be a
guinea pig
for a radio show for the bbc a few years
ago um
and i've had an ultrasound in my heart
so it's pretty terrifying actually
seeing your own beating heart on a
screen next to you
but i guess it was good that it was
beating um
anyway the idea is that your heart is
pumping blood around your body
uh blood is a fluid um and so
as the fluid moves around if you think
about
um pharmaceutical companies i think
about designing new
drugs of course very important in
particular in the current climate um
current pandemic
when you're creating these new drugs you
actually have like so you do the
chemistry and you find that it works but
then you have to think about
how is that drug delivered to where it
needs to be in the body
now that is a fluid mechanics problem
because you're
trying to therefore understand how does
the drug interact with the blood flow
and how can you have it be delivered as
efficiently and quickly as possible
um and so this is one of my favorite
applications of fluid mechanics
and the navier-stokes equations because
most people don't realize that
the kind of range of situations where
these equations apply
so so one example would be if we are
able to unlock
more of the secrets of the navier-stokes
equations
then that will actually hopefully give
us tools to actually design
better drugs and do better drug delivery
in the body so as well as
you know the engineering stuff faster
planes and all that so there's
really is quite um there's really quite
a very very active and very important
area of research
is is looking at drug delivery through
the navier-stokes equation
um so the the
the best way i thought about trying to
to convince you of
uh the complexity of the navier stokes
equations
i felt was to really show you three of
my favorite fluid dynamics experiments
so i'm going to show you three
experimental videos
and what i want you to bear in mind when
you were looking at all of them
is that all three situations
need to be explained by the same
set of equations so all three
experiments i show you
are explained by the same set of
equations which is the navier-stokes
equations and that gives you a little
bit of a clue as to just how
mathematically complex these things
could be
so the first one so what we've got here
when i play the video
you've got a tank filled with water um
you've got two layers to the tanks you
have the top layer
the top layer of the tank contains clear
salt water
the bottom layer contains fresh water
which has been dyed green and separating
them
is a metal barrier and now as i remove
the metal barrier
or as megan removes the metal barrier
one of my colleagues in cambridge
the green water starts to rise because
it's light
the lighter fresh water wants to float
upwards and the heavier salt water the
clear water
wants to sink now this is incredibly
beautiful
undoubtedly definitely the best-looking
fluids experiment i think i've ever seen
but it's insanely complex like like all
everything that's happening here is
predicted and explained and understood
through the navier-stokes equations so
for example the reason that you have
these mushrooms
the reason they all kind of look the
same size the reason
that they move at an approximately
constant speed
both up and down that's all we can
understand all of that
through the navier-stokes equations um
now the second example
um is a classic but it doesn't mean it's
not great
um so this is a cornflower cornstarch
solution on a speaker so so with when
you do not apply
force uh this will just form a red
puddle and then as soon as you turn
on um the speaker and apply a force
you will then get um this the the fluid
then behaves like a solid and starts to
create all of these incredibly complex
incredibly beautiful shapes as um
as it moves around and again this whole
situation
is actually explained and modeled by the
navier-stokes equations so this is an
example of a non-newtonian fluid
uh we would call this this particular
thing so that means that
when you apply a force to the fluid its
properties change
and here the viscosity is changing uh
when you apply this force
and then the uh the third example
possibly my favorite
um there's you can also see you find a
number foul video about this
called reynolds number um where we
actually show this video
um so what's going on here is we've got
a cylindrical beaker
filled with a sugar syrup so just your
standard
basically honey let's call it honey but
it's clear
and then you've added three drops of
food coloring
so the red one uh the blue and the
yellow and now
we have a stir on the top so when i
press play this is going to go forwards
as we stir around and all of the the
three drops of food coloring are going
to mix together
and form this kind of band in the center
of a mixed kind of
almost like a brown color if you were
mixing together
red blue and yellow now i've we've
stopped
reverse the direction
of the rotation and as if
by magic
we go back to where we started now this
isn't a trick this is a real experiment
this is a real video
as i said you can you can watch it in
the in the number foul reynolds number
video so you can see they're not
cheating
you can explain this with the navier
stokes equations uh what's actually
happening is that the viscosity of the
fluid is very high
which means the reynolds number is very
low and that actually eliminates time
from the problem so if time disappears
from the problem
if i go forwards in time and then
backwards in time
it shouldn't change because time never
actually mattered in the first place
that's kind of the math behind it but
it's super neat um so
again we've got we've got the the cool
mushroom clouds we've got the crazy
non-newtonian fluids on the speaker
we've got what i like to call
time-traveling fluids
like all of these crazy amazing
behaviors
are actually explained and understood
from navier-stokes equations like
they all make sense to us now the things
that don't make sense
okay so i've got two final examples to
show you the things that we don't quite
get yet
um so this is another experiment
we've got here two um two metal rings
two two metal circles uh at the top and
the bottom
and they've been dipped in a soap
solution or like a bubble solution so
what you would use to blow bubbles
uh and then they're held at a distance
and then they very slowly move apart
and so this is a high-speed camera and
as you watch them so you can't even tell
they're moving apart
and what you'll see is the middle byte
very very quickly
and very violently and explosively in
fact
sort of shoots in and then forms this
this explosion on the surface so so i'll
play that again because it's quite short
and it's quite nice to watch um so what
you're seeing is the rings move apart
very very slowly you can't even tell and
then the central bit just shoots them
together
and explodes um in this very violent uh
behavior
and this is uh what we would call a
singularity so so this is like a
physical singularity because you have
this very very rapid
change in the volume of the shape
because at the start
at the start the shape moves its volume
is quite constant
and then it starts to change very very
slowly
and then at some point it just like
click your fingers
and the volume is zero so you've had
like a singularity a very very very
sudden explosive change in the volume of
that soap bubble
so this would be like a physical
singularity and a mathematical
singularity
would basically be dividing by zero
that's one way to think about it
and so singularities they appear in the
navier-stokes equations
and we don't really know how to deal
with them and then the other thing that
we don't really understand
is chaos and turbulence when i say chaos
i mean turbulence which is chaotic
uh so this is a great experiment uh done
at ucla so it's a square tank
um the whole tank is rotating so we're
viewing this from above
we've thrown in two drops of food
coloring
and then somebody has gone like this in
the tank to create
a random assortment of waves and
turbulence
in the tank whilst the whole thing is
rotating
so as soon as i press play the the the
turbulence in the tank will be kind of
traced out
by the food coloring and it is
quite possibly the most random thing i
think i've ever seen
uh to do this and there's loads and
loads of experiments uh on
online on their youtube channel and i'm
trying to repeat this experiment
and and every time you get a different
pattern because
the turbulence you're creating is
inherently random in its
in its nature in its entire being it is
random it is chaotic
and we just do not at the moment have a
model or a mathematical explanation for
turbulence we kind of cheat and we
average everything and say the average
speed is this and the average length
scale is this
but what we really need is a full
mathematical
underpinning of turbulence and it's
believed amongst the fluid dynamics
community that if we're able to derive
that
that could actually be a really really
big step in helping us to to
figure out and unlock uh the secrets of
the navier stokes
uh even more so that's in short so
you've got
chaos and turbulence we don't get
singularities we don't get
everything else they work a charm so you
need to understand those two things
uh to earn your million dollars and now
i am actually going to stop
having done four problems
[Applause]